feat(curriculum): add lunch picker lab (#56054)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/lab-lunch-picker-program/66db529d37ad966480ebb633.md

---
id: 66db529d37ad966480ebb633
title: Build a Lunch Picker Program
challengeType: 14
dashedName: build-a-lunch-picker-program
---

# --description--

> In this lab, you will create a program that will help you decide what to eat for lunch. You will have two arrays with different food items. You will use the `push`, `pop` and `shift` methods to modify the arrays. You will also use the `Math.random()` method to generate a random number that will be used to select a random meal from the arrays.

Reviewer: I think this description gives away to much. We should have campers think a little about what methods they will need to use.

```suggestion
In this lab, you'll build a program to assist in choosing lunch options. You'll work with two arrays: one for children's food choices and one for adults. You'll add and remove items from these arrays and then randomly select a meal from each. Finally, you'll log the results to the console.
```

**Objective:** Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab. 

**User Stories:**

> 1. You should create a `kidsMeal` array and assign more than two string values to it. You can either use `push()` or assignment to add the items to the array.

Reviewer: we shouldn't mention how they should go about it. it is best to have campers think a little about what method or approach should work here.

```suggestion
1. You should create a `kidsMeal` variable and assign it an array with at least three strings in it.
```

> 2. You should create an `adultsMeal` array and assign more than two string values to it. You can either use `push()` or assignment to add the items to the array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You should create an `adultsMeal` variable and assign it an array with at least three strings in it.
```

> 3. Once items have been added to the `kidsMeal`, you should remove the last item from it using `pop()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Once items have been added to the `kidsMeal`, you should use the appropriate array method to remove the last item.
```

> 4. Once items have been added to the `adultsMeal`, you should remove the first item from it using `shift()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Once items have been added to the `adultsMeal`, you should use the appropriate array method to remove the first item. 
```

> 5.  Generate a random number between `0` to the length of the `kidsMeal` array using `Math.random()` and store it in a variable called `randomIndexKids`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5.  You should use the appropriate `Math` methods to generate a random number between `0` to the length of the `kidsMeal` array. Assign that result to a variable called `randomIndexKids`.
```

> 6. Generate a random number between `0` to the length of the `adultsMeal` array using `Math.random()` and store it in a variable called `randomIndexAdults`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. You should use the appropriate `Math` methods to generate a random number between `0` to the length of the `kidsMeal` array. Assign that result to a variable called `randomIndexAdults`.
```

7.  Log the following messages to the console:

- `"Today kids should eat:"` followed by the selected meal to the console.
- `"Today adults should eat:"` followed by the selected meal to the console.

# --hints--

You should declare a `kidsMeal` array.

```js
assert.isArray(kidsMeal);
```

You should declare an `adultsMeal` array.

```js
assert.isArray(adultsMeal);
```

Your `kidsMeal` array should contain atleast three items.

```js

> assert.isAtLeast(kidsMeal.length, 2);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assert.isAtLeast(kidsMeal.length, 3);
```

Author: I have kept this intentionally as this would be the length after using `pop()` and `shift()` on the respective arrays with length `3`.

Reviewer 2: This should check that the array contains at least 3 elements at the moment of the assignment. Since it is modified, I'm afraid we should use regex for this test. Something similar to the following?

```suggestion
const matched = code.match(/(const|let)\s+kidsMeal\s*=\s*\[(?<items>.+?)\]/)
const kidsMealArray = matched.groups.items.split(",");
assert.isAtLeast(kidsMealArray.length, 3);
```

Reviewer 3: to avoid any issues with comments I think they should be removed any time a regex test is used

Reviewer 2: Suggestion updated following your comment @ilenia-magoni

Author: Thank you @Dario-DC for the suggestion, this works perfectly.
I have updated other tests too.

```

Your `kidsMeal` array should contain only string values.

```js
assert.isAtLeast(kidsMeal.length, 2);
for (let i = 0; i < kidsMeal.length; i++) {
  assert.isString(kidsMeal[i]);
}
```

Your `adultsMeal` array should contain atleast three items.

```js

> assert.isAtLeast(adultsMeal.length, 2);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assert.isAtLeast(adultsMeal.length, 3);
```

Author: I have kept this intentionally as this would be the length after using `pop()` and `shift()` on the respective arrays with length `3`.

Author: Now, this test has nee updated.

```

> Your adultsMeal array should contain only string values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your `adultsMeal` array should contain only string values.
```

---
id: 66db529d37ad966480ebb633
title: Build a Lunch Picker Program
challengeType: 14
dashedName: build-a-lunch-picker-program
---

# --description--

In this lab, you'll build a program to assist in choosing lunch options. You'll work with two arrays: one for children's food choices and one for adults. You'll add and remove items from these arrays and then randomly select a meal from each. Finally, you'll log the results to the console.

**Objective:** Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab. 

**User Stories:**

1. You should create a `kidsMeal` variable and assign it an array with at least three strings in it.
2. You should create an `adultsMeal` variable and assign it an array with at least three strings in it.
3. Once items have been added to the `kidsMeal`, you should use the appropriate array method to remove the last item.
4. Once items have been added to the `adultsMeal`, you should use the appropriate array method to remove the first item. 
5.  You should use the appropriate `Math` methods to generate a random number between `0` to the length of the `kidsMeal` array. Assign that result to a variable called `randomIndexKids`.

> 6. You should use the appropriate `Math` methods to generate a random number between `0` to the length of the `kidsMeal` array. Assign that result to a variable called `randomIndexAdults`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
6. You should use the appropriate `Math` methods to generate a random number between `0` to the length of the `adultsMeal` array. Assign that result to a variable called `randomIndexAdults`.
```

> 7.  Log the following messages to the console:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
7.  You should log the following messages to the console:
```

- `"Today kids should eat:"` followed by the selected meal to the console.

> - `"Today adults should eat:"` followed by the selected meal to the console.

Reviewer 4: I worry a little that people will think they need to log the quotes to the console - but I'm fine with it like this for now. If people are getting confused, maybe we can change it later.

5.  You should use the appropriate `Math` methods to generate a random number between `0` to the length of the `kidsMeal` array. Assign that result to a variable called `randomIndexKids`.
6. You should use the appropriate `Math` methods to generate a random number between `0` to the length of the `kidsMeal` array. Assign that result to a variable called `randomIndexAdults`.
7.  Log the following messages to the console:

- `"Today kids should eat:"` followed by the selected meal to the console.
- `"Today adults should eat:"` followed by the selected meal to the console.

# --hints--

You should declare a `kidsMeal` array.

```js
assert.isArray(kidsMeal);
```

You should declare an `adultsMeal` array.

```js
assert.isArray(adultsMeal);
```

Your `kidsMeal` array should contain atleast three items.

```js
const matched = __helpers.removeJSComments(code).match(/(const|let)\s+kidsMeal\s*=\s*\[(?<items>.+?)\]/)
const kidsMealArray = matched.groups.items.split(",");
assert.isAtLeast(kidsMealArray.length, 3);
```

Your `kidsMeal` array should contain only non-empty string values.

```js

> const matched = __helpers.removeJSComments(code).match(/(const|let)\s+adultsMeal\s*=\s*\[(?<items>.+?)\]/)
> const adultsMealArray = matched.groups.items.split(",");
> assert.isAtLeast(adultsMealArray.length, 1); 
> 
> for (let i = 0; i < kidsMeal.length; i++) {
>   assert.isString(kidsMeal[i]); // Check that every item is a string
>   assert.isAbove(kidsMeal[i].length, 0, 'String should not be empty'); // Check that string is not empty
> }

Reviewer 2: The test is broken (referencing `adultsMeal`) but it doesn't work because the match is always a string. The following should work well.
The problem is if the items are variables. For that we need a different solution.
```suggestion
const matched = __helpers.removeJSComments(code).match(/(const|let)\s+kidsMeal\s*=\s*\[(?<items>.+?)\]/)
const kidsMealArray = matched.groups.items.split(",");
assert.isAtLeast(kidsMealArray.length, 1);

for (let i = 0; i < kidsMealArray.length; i++) {
  const itemMatch = kidsMealArray[i].trim().match(/^(?<quote>'|"|`)(?<meal>.+)\1$/);
  assert.isNotNull(itemMatch);
  assert.notInclude(itemMatch.groups.meal, itemMatch.groups.quote)
}
```

```

Your `adultsMeal` array should contain atleast three items.

```js
const matched = __helpers.removeJSComments(code).match(/(const|let)\s+adultsMeal\s*=\s*\[(?<items>.+?)\]/)
const adultsMealArray = matched.groups.items.split(",");
assert.isAtLeast(adultsMealArray.length, 3);
```

Your `adultsMeal` array should contain only non-empty string values.

```js
const matched = __helpers.removeJSComments(code).match(/(const|let)\s+adultsMeal\s*=\s*\[(?<items>.+?)\]/)
const adultsMealArray = matched.groups.items.split(",");
assert.isAtLeast(adultsMealArray.length, 1);

> for (let i = 0; i < adultsMeal.length; i++) {
>   assert.isString(adultsMeal[i]); 
>   assert.isAbove(adultsMeal[i].length, 0, 'String should not be empty'); 
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

for (let i = 0; i < adultsMealArray.length; i++) {
  const itemMatch = adultsMealArray[i].trim().match(/^(?<quote>'|"|`)(?<meal>.+)\1$/);
  assert.isNotNull(itemMatch);
  assert.notInclude(itemMatch.groups.meal, itemMatch.groups.quote)
}
```

```

You should remove the last item from the `kidsMeal` array using `pop()`.

```js
assert.match(__helpers.removeJSComments(code), /kidsMeal\.pop/);
```

You should remove the first item from the `adultsMeal` array using `shift()`.

```js
assert.match(__helpers.removeJSComments(code), /adultsMeal\.shift/);
```

You should use `Math.random()` to generate a random number from `0` upto the length of the `kidsMeal` array that will be used to select a random meal from the `kidsMeal` array and store it in a variable called `randomIndexKids`.

> 

Reviewer 2: This test doesn't work properly. If I have `const randomIndexKids = Math.floor(Math.random() * 10)`, and when the test runs `randomIndexKids` is `1`, the  test does not fail. If you run it again it could be `9` and fail.

Also, it matches `Math.random()` without any relation with the assignment to `randomIndexKids`.

The same is true for the test after this one.

Author: I have updated both, let me know what you think @Dario-DC.

```js
lunches = ["Salad", "Eggs", "Cheese"];
assert.strictEqual(removeFirstLunch(), "Salad removed from the start of the lunch menu.");

// prevent hardcoding
assert.strictEqual(removeFirstLunch(), "Eggs removed from the start of the lunch menu.");
assert.strictEqual(removeFirstLunch(), "Cheese removed from the start of the lunch menu.");
```

You should define a function `getRandomLunch`.

```js
assert.isFunction(getRandomLunch);
```

When the `lunches` array is empty, the function `getRandomLunch` should return the string `"No lunches available."`.

```js
lunches = [];
assert.strictEqual(getRandomLunch(), "No lunches available.");
```

When `lunches = ["Fish", "Fries", "Roast"]`, the function `getRandomLunch` should return a string in the format `"Randomly selected lunch: [Lunch Item]"`.

```js
let initialCondition = "false";
lunches = ["Fish", "Fries", "Roast"]

lunches.forEach((lunch) => {
  const result = getRandomLunch();
  if(result === `Randomly selected lunch: ${lunch}`){
    initialCondition = "true";
  }
});
assert(initialCondition);

> ```

Reviewer 3: this test always passes, you have `assert("any string")` which always passes.
You need to convert `initialCondition` to a boolean, but then it can also randomly not pass.

I suggest using the new mockRandom thing so you know which item should come out, and you know which item should come out of `getRandomLunch`. Or you can even force `math.random` to come out with a specific value adding before the call to `getRandomLunch` one of these:
```js
math.random = () => 0; //to get the first item in the array
math.random = () => 0.4; // to get the second item in the array
math.random = () => 0.8; // to get the third item in the array
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const temp = Math.random;

lunches = ["Fish", "Fries", "Roast"];

// check that it correctly outputs the first item
Math.random = () => 0;
assert.equal(getRandomLunch(), `Randomly selected lunch: ${lunches[0]}`);

// second item
Math.random = () => 0.4;
assert.equal(getRandomLunch(), `Randomly selected lunch: ${lunches[1]}`);

// third item
Math.random = () => 0.8;
assert.equal(getRandomLunch(), `Randomly selected lunch: ${lunches[2]}`);

// restore Math.random
Math.random = temp;
```

7. You should create a function `showLunchMenu` that:
   - If there are items in the `lunches` array, returns a string in the format: `"Menu items: [Lunch Item], [Lunch Item]...`
   - If the `lunches` array is empty, returns a string: `"The menu is empty."`

# --hints--

You should declare a variable `lunches` and assign it an empty array to store the lunch items.

```js
assert.isArray(lunches);
```

You should define a function `addLunchToEnd`.

```js
assert.isFunction(addLunchToEnd);
```

The function `addLunchToEnd` should take a string as an argument.

```js
assert.match(addLunchToEnd.toString(), /\s*addLunchToEnd\(\s*\w+\s*\)/);
```

`addLunchToEnd("Tacos")` should return the string `"Tacos added to the end of the lunch menu."`.

```js
assert.strictEqual(addLunchToEnd("Tacos"), "Tacos added to the end of the lunch menu.");

// prevent hardcoding
assert.strictEqual(addLunchToEnd("Pizza"), "Pizza added to the end of the lunch menu.");
assert.strictEqual(addLunchToEnd("Burger"), "Burger added to the end of the lunch menu.");
```

You should define a function `addLunchToStart`.

```js
assert.isFunction(addLunchToStart);
```

> The function `addLunchToStart` should take a string as an argument.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The function `addLunchToStart` should take a single argument.
```

```js

> assert.match(addLunchToStart.toString(), /\s*addLunchToStart\(\s*\w+\s*\)/);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
assert.lengthOf(addLunchToStart, 1);
```

---
id: 66db529d37ad966480ebb633
title: Build a Lunch Picker Program
challengeType: 14
dashedName: build-a-lunch-picker-program
---

# --description--

In this lab, you'll build a program that helps in managing lunch options. You'll work with an array of lunches, add and remove items from the array, and randomly select a lunch option.

**Objective:** Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab.

**User Stories:**

1. You should create a `lunches` variable and assign it an empty array that will be used to store lunch items.

2. You should create a function `addLunchToEnd` that takes a string parameter and adds it to the end of the `lunches` array and returns a string in the format:
     
   - `"[Lunch Item] added to the end of the lunch menu."`

3. You should create a function `addLunchToStart` that takes a string parameter and adds it to the start of the `lunches` array and returns a string in the format:  
   
   - `"[Lunch Item] added to the start of the lunch menu."`

4. You should create a function `removeLastLunch` that removes the last lunch item from the `lunches` array and:
   
   - If successful, returns a string in the format:  

>      - `"[Lunch Item] removed from the lunch menu (last)."`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
     - `"[Lunch Item] removed from the end of the lunch menu."`
```

This sounded a little off to me - but not really an issue to leave it, so no need to make the change if you don't want. The test would have to change as well.

   - If the `lunches` array is empty, returns a string:  
     - `"No lunches to remove."`

5. You should create a function `removeFirstLunch` that removes the first lunch item from the `lunches` array and:
   
   - If successful, returns a string in the format:  

>      - `"[Lunch Item] removed from the lunch menu (first)."`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
     - `"[Lunch Item] removed from the start of the lunch menu."`
```

Same - This sounded a little off to me - but not really an issue to leave it, so no need to make the change if you don't want. The test would have to change as well.

   - If the `lunches` array is empty, returns a string:  
     - `"No lunches to remove."`

6. You should create a function `getRandomLunch` that selects a random lunch item from the `lunches` array and:
   
   - If successful, returns a string in the format:  
     - `"Randomly selected lunch: [Lunch Item]"`
   - If the `lunches` array is empty, returns a string:  
     - `"No lunches available."`

7. You should create a function `showLunchMenu` that:
   
   - If there are items in the `lunches` array, returns a string in the format:  
     - `"Menu items: [Lunch Item], [Lunch Item]...`
     - If the `lunches` array is empty, returns a string:  
       - `"The menu is empty."`

# --hints--

You should declare a variable `lunches` and assign it an empty array to store the lunch items.

```js
assert.isArray(lunches);
```

You should define a function `addLunchToEnd`.

```js
assert.isFunction(addLunchToEnd);
```

The function `addLunchToEnd` should take a string as an argument.

```js
assert.match(addLunchToEnd.toString(), /\s*addLunchToEnd\(\s*\w+\s*\)/);
```

> `addLunchToEnd("Tacos)` should return the string `"Tacos added to the end of the lunch menu."`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`addLunchToEnd("Tacos")` should return the string `"Tacos added to the end of the lunch menu."`.
```

> Your `kidsMeal` array should contain atleast three items.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your `kidsMeal` array should contain at least three items.
```

Reviewer: @zairahira it looks like we still have this last suggested change
